last week I came home to find insta
360's Next Generation X4 camera sitting
at my doorstep and a company wanting to
sponsor a video about it I didn't
initially say yes cuz as cool as these
360 cameras look some part of me was
thinking I have a phone camera now that
I'm really happy with that I already
take everywhere when would I actually
use this and so that became my mission I
booked a trip to London I took this X4 I
took my phone so that we can find out
what it actually means to own a 2024 360
camera so the very first thing you
notice filming on this versus your phone
apart from the fact that it looks like
one meaty technological finger is that
it takes a lot of the thought out of
filming if people have this idea that
360° video is kind of pointless and for
the most part I actually agree like am I
realistically going to post a 360° video
anywhere probably not but that's
actually not the point of it the point I
think of shooting every single angle all
at once is not to keep every single
angle it's so that you can decide later
it's to stop this this thing that all of
us do anytime we think something worth
recording happens all our attention
disappears away from the moment and
what's actually happening and goes
towards just focusing on keeping the
framing right cuz you got one shot at
this and God forbid you miss the moment
where your sister blows out the candles
of her cake for the 20th time but here's
what happens when you record something
on the X4 because the 360 camera isn't
just shooting what's in front of it but
instead a full sphere of video all the
time you get three options you can
either use AI if you want to have zero
involvement and your phone will
automatically look around that footage
and turn it into a clip that shows what
it thinks is the most interesting moment
at every step there's the quick mode
which lets you change the Viewpoint of
the footage but by using quick tools
like this little joystick at the bottom
or the gyro sensors in your phone so as
you look around physically you're
looking around inside that clip or what
I think is by far the coolest deep track
3.0 which means I'll just draw on an
object I'll tap the play button and it's
actually so impressive it just in real
time changes the footage to constantly
keep that thing in the center at all
times and then if you want to get
completely stuck in that's what prom
mode is for but the big thing that
really makes it all click together this
time round is that the camera now
records an 8K resolution for a long time
the 360 camera industry has kind of been
stuck at 5.7k being the maximum and
while of course that is still a lot of
pixels it does mean that anytime you'd
want to reframe your footage afterwards
and you might want to zoom in a little
bit on top of that there would be some
resolution compromise but that is not
the case anymore so that is definitely
one perk but I still don't think that
alone would be enough for me to justify
carrying around a whole extra Gadget so
I started digging a little deeper what
situations could I use this in where my
phone just would not cut it and then I
remembered there is another extremely
powerful benefit from having one camera
on each side that can both record at the
same
time well you get two cameras so that
means yes if you decide you want to use
it as a normal single action camera you
can do that and you get full 4K quality
at 60 frames per second it's very pretty
if you want a dash cam for your car then
this is literally the highest end dash
cam that money can buy shooting full
quality 4K video both ways at the same
time with the same Flow State
stabilization that's used to make
mountain biking look smooth so it's
almost good enough for my driving if you
wanted a webcam it's going to be that
too with an incoming update but a webcam
with two ultra wide cameras at once
covering every single person in the room
with four directional microphones to
individually pick up each person's audio
or actually where whole multiple camera
thing really hit me was when I
remembered the unbreakable Tech video
that we filmed a few weeks ago we were
shooting this car in our garden and
because it's such a fast car and we
didn't know where it was going to end up
we had Josh our main cameraman filming
from one Viewpoint we had Joseph our
everything man filming from another
Viewpoint and then we had drer from
another whereas this X4 has made me
realize that all I would have needed to
do was to stick it in the ground and
leave it there because it records
everything you'll be able to focus on
the car as it approaches the camera
you'll be able to track it with complete
accuracy and smoothness carry on
following it as it goes past you and
then also whenever we decide we want to
show where I am in the frame so zero
people on camera oh actually can we just
talk Hardware a second I wanted to start
the video with Hardware drisha told me
no ear and stop no one will watch it but
maybe you'll find this cool because
unlike phone companies insta 360 only
upgrades their cameras once every 2
years so the jump in specs on the X4
versus the previous already very well
reviewed X3 I think is massive like the
battery lasts almost 70% longer just to
give you an idea the GoPro Hero 12 can
shoot 90 minutes at 5.3k this can shoot
135 minutes at 5.7k in 360° it's powered
by a new 5 nanom AI chip which makes
just everything run faster it boosts the
footage transfer speed to between 50%
and 100% faster and also it allows the
camera to shoot that footage using high
efficiency video coding which basically
means the new higher quality 8K clips
now take up Less storage space than
previous lower quality Clips it's got a
bigger more colorful display but if you
don't want to use it you can control the
camera with gestures in case you're
wearing gloves or you want to make it
super easy to teach your grandparents as
well as Ultra wide mode there is now
Mega view which is absolutely insane it
feels like a field of view that
shouldn't actually even be possible like
I can see both sides of my hand in one
frame which is is this what it would
look like if we also had eyes on the
back of our heads the body is more
durable the glass is now Gorilla Glass
it comes ready to fit removable lens
guards too which now come included in
the box and I have to say do massively
improve the durability oh yeah and the
whole thing is also dive proof to 10 m
and then as far as recording is
concerned I've already mentioned that
normal video is now up from 5.7k to 8K
and well just to give you an idea this
is what that looks like in practice with
my insta 360 X4 next to last Generations
in 360 X3 but it's not just normal video
slow motion is also now way higher
quality you can take 5.7k at 60 frames
per second and then 4K at 100 frames per
second which is a world first for a 360°
camera and when you combine slow-mo and
360 you can do some very interesting
stuff and if you want to take a
time-lapse video instead of 8K
resolution which by the way is already
four times the resolution of 4K this
thing can shoot in 11k resolution which
I mean what does that even look like so
I tested it and well it does need decent
lighting that is one restriction but
feed it that and yeah no phone has ever
recorded anything like this you can move
to any angle and it looks good because
there are just so many pixels present
and then what I find really cool is that
because it's 360 footage you can also
just keep zooming out and that is your
11k resolution mini globe of a memory
the other thing that I've come to
realize is does this not look an awful
lot like Drone footage because this is
essentially two cameras each with a 210°
field of vision you do get a tactical
blind spot which allows the selfie stick
that you use to just disappear and for
the camera to look like it is flying I
don't think it's a full drone
replacement like we've started using a
drone every now and again like in our
unbreakable Tech video actually where we
hired out this big lift and we wanted to
get a shot of the full scene this can't
do that actually probably could if I
just attached it to a 3M selfie stick
and then stuck that selfie stick to the
lift I was
on yeah that would be the same thing
right well I guess the point that I was
going to make is that this can be do a
lot of what a drone could do in the way
that many people do use drones but
without most of the downsides it's
silent it's easier to control it's
cheaper it has longer battery it's less
fragile and it isn't going to suddenly
decide to kamikazi into the nearest tree
but what I think is the most important
part of this equation is that this can
use M mode which means even if you film
as you're normally filming like not
really paying particular attention to
which way the camera is facing it will
just stay locked onto your face it's
also got a gyroscope on the inside that
can not just keep you level with the
Horizon in one axis but literally in
full
360° all the time it's an effect that I
have never seen on any other camera I've
ever used I do still feel like the phone
is always going to be the first camera
you reach for cuz nothing's more
convenient than that but then this for
anyone who's like just a little bit more
creatively oriented feels like it covers
just about every other possible use you
can think of without having to Lug
around professional camera gear but okay
everything that we've talked about so
far I would say those are the
fundamentals where this gets
particularly spicy is with shot lab this
absolutely enormous list of different
types of effects that you can create
think filters for your camera but just
to another level because they're
actually fully taking advantage of this
camera's panoptic ability to see
everything all at once also the list is
like twice the size now compared to when
I first booted it up on the X3 so with
that last camera I showed you how you
can swap out the sky which is still here
but now has more options I thought
electric surge was so cool cuz it can
automatically loop around you with these
lighting effects there was bullet time
which is of course also here just now in
higher quality on the X4 but it feels
properly Next Level now there's flash
Dash which looks like a move out of
Dragon Ball rest in peace Mr Toriyama by
the way that was heartbreaking there's
AI War which is absolutely Next Level
you pick a style and then AI completely
reskins your video in that style and
then there's even Inception looking
Horizon bending effects and it's always
shocking how cool the end clip can look
even if the base clip is literally me
having a walk on the street now I do
think that this camera itself is
starting to reach premium tier pricing
like the X4 is $499 but shot laab is for
me what makes that worth it because it
is vast in terms of what it lets you do
and completely included in that purchase
price the only one exception to that is
AI warp which has a cap of three free
uses a day presumably because it's quite
expensive on their and to process it but
like gopro's equivalent editing Suite is
much more basic but also it's a paid
subscription and if you want to know the
state of subscriptions in
2024 well I have the perfect video for
you I'll link it from here and for the
insta 360 they've also given us a
special link that gets you a free
invisible selfie stick with the camera
so that is in the description too